Short Answer Question

What is the difference between an API and a server?

An API (Application Programming Interface) is, as its full name suggests, a means of providing a set
of programming standards and instructions for applications to interface with and access a Web service's
existing shared data. A server is the application that routes client requests and the target application's responses,
whether this response is an API or otherwise.


what does a DNS server do when you type "www.google.com" into an address bar?

A DNS (Domain Name System) server transforms the familiar "www.google.com" address into its less-easily-remembered
numerical IP address and directs the client request accordingly.


What are some differences between a single page application and a multipage application? List one example of each.

A single page application offers the user all of its information in one single page load. The browser never refreshes,
and though displayed data may be re-rendered dynamically and therefore the page may look different, no new page was generated.
See: Trello, Google Maps, all of our AJAX exercises.
A multi-page application, in contrast, loads data according to multiple requests and responses. The browser refreshes
each time a link is clicked. See: The NYT site.


Why do we use RESTful routes?

REST (Representational State Transfer) is what we learned yesterday! Creating RESTful routes meaning adhering to
a particular standardized style and principle when building and/or accessing Web services or tools. Standardizing language, including
HTTP verbs like GET, PUT, POST, and DELETE, makes it simpler for applications to communicate with each other and for developers to access
data from other applications without necessarily knowing the structure of that application in advance.


What is an API key and why are they used?

An API key is an individual identifier provided to each user of an API that a.) makes sure no user is incorrectly utilizing the API or violating
rights agreements, b.) ensures no user is creating undue strain on the application by making too many requests of the API.
